---
title: About COVID 19
permalink: /general-public/services-and-resources/covid19/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: Resources
---
<p>Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus.</p><p>Most people infected with the virus will experience mild to moderate respiratory illness and recover without needing any medical assistance.</p><p>Some people can still get very sick even if they are fit and healthy. Older people with pre-existing conditions and people with compromised immunity are at a higher risk of experiencing severe illness.</p><p>We can all stay well by choosing to stay ahead of COVID-19. Choose to stay safe by wearing a mask in indoor settings, getting together in well-ventilated spaces and <a href="https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/covid-19/covid-19-vaccination" class="rpl-link rpl-link--nuxt rpl-text-link" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank"><strong><u>staying up to date with vaccinations</u></strong></a>.</p><h3>COVID-19 Symptoms</h3><p>COVID-19 symptoms vary from mild to severe – speak to your doctor if you have any concerns. Symptoms may appear any time between 2-14 days after being exposed to the virus. The symptoms to look for are:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>runny nose</p></li><li><p>sore throat</p></li><li><p>cough</p></li><li><p>shortness of breath</p></li><li><p>fever, chills and/or sweats.</p></li></ul><p>Some people may also experience headache, muscle soreness, fatigue, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea, loss of smell and taste, loss of appetite.</p><p>If you have any of the symptoms listed, however mild, you should seek advice and <a href="https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/covid-19/testing-covid-19" class="rpl-link rpl-link--nuxt rpl-text-link" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank"><strong><u>take a COVID-19 test</u></strong></a> immediately.</p><p>If you test positive for COVID-19, see <a href="https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/covid-19/checklist-covid-19-cases" class="rpl-link rpl-link--nuxt rpl-text-link" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank"><strong><u>Checklist for COVID cases</u></strong></a> for a step-by-step guide to support you through to recovery.</p><p>Dial Triple Nine (<a href="tel:000" class="rpl-link rpl-text-link" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank"><strong><u>999</u></strong></a>) if you are having trouble breathing or have chest pain.</p><h3>COVID-19 transmission</h3><p>The World Health Organisation suggests that COVID-19 can be transmitted by contact with respiratory droplets or airborne aerosols from an infected person.</p><h4>Droplet transmission</h4><p>A person can be infected with COVID-19 by touching respiratory droplets like saliva, mucus or tears from an infected person. These are spread through coughing, sneezing, kissing, talking, or singing.</p><p>These droplets can enter your mouth, nose or eyes and cause infection. This can happen by:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>having close face-to-face contact</p></li><li><p>being within 1.5 metres of someone with COVID-19</p></li><li><p>touching a contaminated surface before touching your face.</p></li></ul><h4>Airborne transmission</h4><p>Airborne aerosols are tiny particles that float in the air.</p><p>An infected person can produce aerosols from:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>coughing</p></li><li><p>sneezing</p></li><li><p>talking</p></li><li><p>singing</p></li><li><p>breathing</p></li></ul><p>This means that COVID-19 can be spread through these tiny infectious particles suspended in the air.</p><p>Sometimes, the virus can remain in the air for some time in settings such as in indoor spaces with poor ventilation.</p><h3>Treatment for COVD-19</h3><p>Most people can <a href="https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/covid-19/checklist-covid-19-cases" class="rpl-link rpl-link--nuxt rpl-text-link" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank"><strong><u>recover from COVID-19 at home</u></strong></a>.</p><p>Antiviral medicines are available for eligible Victorians who have COVID-19 to prevent them from getting so sick that they need hospital care. To see if you may be eligible and for more information, visit <a href="https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/covid-19/covid-19-antiviral-medicine" class="rpl-link rpl-link--nuxt rpl-text-link" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank"><strong><u>COVID-19 antiviral medicines</u></strong></a>.</p><p>Early diagnosis, testing and general supportive care are important.</p><p></p><p>&lt;iframe width="600" height="400" src="<a href="https://beta.data.gov.sg/collections/522/datasets/d_abeeab6fb3b739d7b234e7452bafd07c/chart/1039" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://beta.data.gov.sg/collections/522/datasets/d_abeeab6fb3b739d7b234e7452bafd07c/chart/1039</a>" frameBorder="0"&gt; &lt;/iframe&gt;</p>