---
title: "New COVID 19 Jab offers broader and longer protection: Experts"
permalink: /resources/news/new-covid-19-jab-offers-broader-and-longer-protection/
date: 2023-11-29
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<p>The Republic will be bringing in the latest COVID-19 vaccines by the end of October. The Health Sciences Authority has approved Pfizer’s new vaccine and is reviewing Moderna’s vaccine. Both are monovalent, targeting the XBB.1.5 COVID-19 strain. Is there really still a need for such vaccines? For those who are due for their booster jabs, should they wait for the new vaccines? Here’s what the experts say.</p><h4>The pandemic is over, so why is Singapore bringing in more COVID-19 vaccines?</h4><p>The virus is still circulating. In the week of Sept 3, more than 7,000 people here were diagnosed with COVID-19. While this is far lower than the numbers seen in April and May, which peaked at over 28,000 a week, it remains significant, as 151 people were hospitalised that week, with two needing intensive care.</p><p>Health Minister Ong Ye Kung recently cautioned that with falling vaccination take-up rates here, “over time, our protection against COVID-19 will weaken”.</p><p>Urging people to get their booster shots, he said: “The virus has not gotten milder. It is we who have gotten stronger, through vaccinations and safe recovery from infections.”</p><p>In the first seven months of this year, 172 people died from COVID-19 in Singapore.</p><p></p><h4>Younger people are less likely to get seriously ill if infected, so do they really need to get a booster?</h4><p>That is a personal decision.</p><p>Young and healthy people who have had the “minimum protection” – which the Ministry of Health defines as three doses of the Pfizer, Moderna or Novavax vaccine, or four doses of the Sinovac vaccine – retain long-term protection against severe illness if infected.</p><p>Dr Kurup said they may want to have boosters annually to “ring-fence” vulnerable family members, or if they do not want to get sick as they plan to travel or are sitting exams, or just to maintain good health.</p><p>Read the full article <a href="https://www.ncid.sg/News-Events/News/Documents/(ST%20210923)%20New%20COVID-19%20jabs%20offer%20broad,%20better%20protection%20Experts.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">here</a>.</p><p>Source: The Straits Times © SPH Media Limited. Permission required for reproduction</p>